Slide 2: Deformities in concrete
Delamination is a huge issue that occurs in concrete where the layers of it concrete start to separate at the surface, or extremely close to the surface, of the material. Next, we have voids. A void is any hole that exists in the concrete. And they can go completely unnoticed if they're underneath the surface of the concrete, which affects the structural integrity. When engineers pour concrete, they try to ensure the hot asphalt is as flattened as possible. Because if there are any air bubbles or pockets in the asphalt they lay down, all of the asphalt will harden around those air bubbles. Another type of deformity is honeycombing. Honeycombs are a bunch of little small voids in close proximity to each other. This is usually an indication that the asphalt solution was not properly mixed or evenly distributed prior to pouring.

Slide 3: Structural deformation in rebars
Reinforced concrete contains rebars. Rebars are these steel beams that increase the tensile strength of the concrete. They're laid out in a grid arrangement before the concrete is poured, as you can see in this image. One important detail to consider is that rebars have to be spaced out evenly, or the load distribution changes, which will cause weak points in the structure. Although rebars may be laid out properly at first, they can become spaced out from one another over time. Additionally, we want to avoid rebar bending and corrosion at all costs! Bending is bad because it can lead to structural failure. And if the rebar starts to corrode, then the concrete will begin to oxidize and crack.

Slide 3: Destructive testing
So, how do we detect all of these deformities? In the past, experts relied on a method called destructive testing. by taking core samples from bridges. This involved taking core samples—physically drilling into bridges and extracting sections of concrete to analyze. The idea was to retrieve samples from multiple sections of the bridge and average the data from each of those samples together. However, this approach is really inefficient, since minor defects in the structure can go completely unnoticed. And on top of that, it literally damages the structure over time. Every time a sample is taken, the bridge gets weaker.

Slide 4: Nondestructive testing
Now have nondestructive testing (NDT), where we use infrared thermography, ultrasonic testing, ground-penetrating radar (GPR), and radiography to be able to "see" through concrete structures without actually harming the concrete itself. GPR is the most commonly used method because of its reliability and effectiveness, but other NDT methods are good too for some specific usecases.

Slide 5: Ground-penetrating radar
Talk about how GPR works. We use variation of the dielectric properties of the material to be able to see through the concrete. This is done through electromagnetic waves that propagate through the surface of the material. Explain this concept at an undergraduate level, so that general audiences can easily understand how it works. Explain what dielectric properties and electric permittivity mean in this case. v = c / sqrt(e). There is a large antennae on the bottom of the GPR machine that is able to emit an ultra-wide domain of frequency ranges, which is composed of a TX and RX (transmit and receive). For any signals of a particular bandwidth that are received, the computer is able to use the time from TX to RX to calculate ... (etc etc)
There are three different types of data visualization formats that can be analyzed
with GPR systems. These are known as A-scan, B-scan, and C-scan data (Hou, et al., 2022). The data represented in A-scan format is one-dimensional and represents an energy-curve graph of the amplitude versus time. B-scan data is two-dimensional and composed of A-scans, which is shown in radargram form. Lastly, C-scan format is a planar representation of the data and is a combination of B-scan images. Since GPR data is captured in the time domain, many researchers find it particularly useful to take the fourier transform to be able to see the data in the frequency domain. If there are any components of the signal with a higher frequency than the rest, this is a potential indicator of a defect in the concrete.

Slide 5: Interpreting GPR radargrams not trivial
Interpreting data of a GPR scan is really difficult for the average person. You have to be a trained, licensed professional to be able to notice some of these defects, as most of the detections of deformities in concrete are not immediately obvious. Additionally, GPR scans are really noisy. This means, depending on the bandwidth and image resolution of the antennae, the features can show up very faint, and it is hard to see in many cases. The solution? Leverage convolutional neural networks (CNNs) to be able to capture specific edges and features in each radargram image to assist scientists and engineers with deformity detection while on the ground.

Slide 6: Conva what now??
Explain what convolutional neural networks are: "Really complicated math machines." Give a brief overview of the multilayer perceptron, gradient descent of the loss function, and backprop. This allows high-dimensionality features to be detected at a lower level. Explain what training and validation datasets are, as well as accuracy, precision, recall, and F1 score.

Slide 7: Data collection
We took a bunch of floor scans from the engineering research building at georgia southern. The engineering research building is extremely modern and only four years old, built only four years ago. Using two state-of-the-art GPR machines that are used by civil engineers today, we canvassed 26 feet using both of these machines with an increment of 2 feet per scan. We repeated this four times for one of each of the four hallways that we had.

Slide 8: Training process
Once the floor scans were complete, I put one half into the training dataset and the other half into the validation dataset. Explain the importance of training and validation datasets, and how they are used to avoid overfitting. To see if your model generalizes well under different parameters and conditions. Because of this, it's really important to test a variety of different variables in your dataset to make it more generalizable. Because at the end of the day, neural networks are just really complicated math machines that can only pick up patterns in different variables at a high level. So, if you vary those parameters quite a bit in your dataset, you'll get a good neural network that is able to generalize itself to a variety of conditions. And obviously, the more data you have, the better. I believe we had 180 images in total, and I labeled the training dataset by hand, drawing boxes around each rebar.

Slide 9: Introducing deformities
But this introduces a problem. Given what I've just told you about the generalizability of neural networks, can anyone tell me what a potential problem is with the methodology that I've described in our experiment? Why is it a really bad idea to get data from the Engineering Research Building at georgia southern specifically? Remember what I said about the building being made 5 years ago? Yeah, that's a huge issue! The engineering research building is so new that our GPR scans didn't actually have any deformities in the data set! And since a convolutional neural network can't recognize nor synthesize any data that it hasn't been trained on, how are we going to be able to identify deformities in general? I think we watched a movie yesterday talking about how AI and human intelligence is identical? Well, that's a huge shortcoming of AI right now--at the end of the day, behind the hood, it's just a really complicated math machine, and if we don't introduce defects into the training dataset, it's not going to be able to recognize defects in the validation dataset. Here's how we solved this problem: synthetic Defect Embedding in Controlled Laboratory Conditions. In order to introduce defects into the model, I used a previous grad student's PhD thesis figures to put them into the model. There weren't many images to go off of, and they definitely did not meet similar spec requirements of the data that we collected, but they are similar to what you'll see in general.

Slide 10: Results
Here is an input/output sequence of the model! We feed it a test image, and it spits out the same image with some bounding boxes around each of the rebars, which appear as hyperbolas. We can calculate the average horizontal distance for each rebar, and if any rebar has a really large outlier, 2times the standard deviation, we report it. That's all we've done for now, although incorporating all of the other features that I mentioned, such as voids, honeycombing, and delamination shouldn't take very long either. Here are some additional images showing a proof-of-concept of what that would look like for that.

Slide 11: Still a WIP
This project is still a work in progress. I've been working on it for the past semester and a half now. I still need to introduce the simulated deformities into the model, and retrain the neural network. I also still need to benchmark the data set against other state of the art image recognition models that use CNNs as the back end. There are many different public models that can be used for each training such as YOLO, ResNet and DenseNet, and I want to compare my results accordingly, since I created a CNN from scratch. I am releasing the final model and data set as an open-source, public data set for researchers. I actually just received word from the Georgia Department of Transportation that they're going to be using ConcreteNet on the ground for their engineers on the ground conducting bridge assessment. This is really exciting news to me because, not only is it extremely rewarding to see your hard work being used, but also, they'll be collecting live data that I can then feed back into the model and make it better. I'm going to use this information to write two papers--one demonstrating the model's accuracy itself, and another paper looking at the complexity and generalization capabilities of the data that we collected at the Engineering Research Building at Georgia Southern. I actually want to finish this project by the end of the summer. And once I'm done, next year, I plan to use robots that can collect GPR-data autonomously to develop augmented reality glasses that allow engineers to see through the ground for paved roads and highways. Basically: real-time xray vision, which is something straight out of a sci-fi movie, but it's surprisingly close to becoming a reality.

Slide 13: Conclusion
ConcreteNet is a tool to help civil engineers, material scientists, and environmental scientists with deformity detection in GPR radargram images. It will not replace anybody's job, you still need to be a trained professional, but it will make many peoples' jobs easier, and make the world a better and safer place. I hope you guys learned a lot about the field of nondestructive testing, how neural networks and AI work (albeit at a high level), and ground-penetrating radargrams. if you want to get in contact with me after the conference is over, my email and website are on this slide. Thank you for your attention!
